Documentation for linking Stacks (#36408)
hashicorp/terraform: website/docs/language/stacks/deploy/link-stacks.mdx

---
page_title: Pass data from one Stack to another  
description: Learn how to pass data from one Stack to another using `publish_output` blocks to output data from one Stack, and `upstream_input` blocks to input that data into another Stack.   
---

# Pass data from one Stack to another

> If you have multiple Stacks that do not share a provisioning lifecycle, there are situations where you want to pass information between Stacks. To export data from one Stack to another, use a `publish_output` block to output data from one Stack, and use an `upstream_input` block in another Stack to consume that output.

Author: I see your point but I think the final sentence feels a little confusing. I'll simplify and combine with the sentence below for emphasis. 

```suggestion
If you have multiple Stacks that do not share a provisioning lifecycle, you can export data from one Stack for another Stack to consume. If the output value of a Stack changes after a run, HCP Terraform automatically triggers runs for any Stacks that depend on those outputs.
```

> If the output value of a Stack changes after a run, HCP Terraform automatically triggers runs for any Stacks that depend on those outputs.

Author: This is the whole reason why folks would want to do this, so I think it's important to keep this front and center!

To use another Stack's output, declare an `upstream_input` block in the deployment configuration of a different Stack in the same project. We refer to the Stack that declares an `upstream_input` block as the downstream Stack. For example, if Stack A produces outputs that Stack B depends on, Stack A is the upstream Stack, and Stack B is the downstream Stack.

As a real life example, you could have a Stack for shared services, such as networking infrastructure, and a separate Stack for application components. Your Stack separation allows you to manage each Stack independently, and you can export data from your networking Stack with the `publish_output` block and consume that data into your application Stack using the `upstream_input` block.

# Requirements

The `publish_output` and `upstream_input` blocks require at least Terraform version `terraform_1.10.0-alpha20241009` or higher. We recommend downloading the [latest version of Terraform](https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/) to use the most up-to-date functionality.

Downstream Stacks must also reside in the same project as their upstream Stacks.

# Declare outputs

> You must declare a `publish_output` block in your deployment configuration for each value you want to output from your current Stack. 

Author: I don't think we need to explain what an expression is here, or how to reference a value. Wouldn't that be what we'd want to put in a reference article? This is usage so that feels a bit excessive, what I'm trying to communicate is:

1. Declare a publish_output for each value you want to output from your Stack (can be <any> value).
1. Here is an example of what that looks like.
1. To use this output, HCP Terraform needs to fetch your configuration and apply it.
1. Look at the reference article if you want to learn more about syntax.

Once you apply a Stack configuration version that includes your `publish_output` block, HCP Terraform publishes a snapshot of those values, which allows HCP Terraform to resolve them. Meaning, you must apply your Stack’s deployment configuration before any downstream Stacks can reference your Stack's outputs.

> For example, you can add a `publish_output` block for the `vpc_id`  in your upstream Stack’s deployment configuration.

Author: I want to keep the "for example" sentence above the code block to give context for that the code block. I see what you mean about moving the apply description underneath though so I'll move that!

<CodeBlockConfig filename="network.tfdeploy.hcl">

```hcl
# Networking Stack deployment configuration

publish_output "vpc_id" {
  description = "The networking Stack's VPC's ID."
  # You can directly reference a deployment's values with the

>   # deployment.deployment_name syntax

Author: Oops, I forgot about that rule! Moved outside and added a bit more context.

  value       = deployment.network.vpc_id
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

After applying this configuration, any Stack in the same project can now reference this `vpc_id` output by declaring an `upstream_input` block. Learn more about the [`publish_output` block](/terraform/language/stacks/reference/tfdeploy#publish_output-block-configuration).

## Use an upstream Stack’s inputs

> Declare an `upstream_input` block in your Stack’s deployment configuration to read values from another Stack's `publish_output` block. Adding an `upstream_input` block creates a dependency on the upstream Stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declare an `upstream_input` block in your Stack’s deployment configuration to read values from another Stack's `publish_output` block. Configure the following arguments in the `upstream_input` block:

- `type`: Specifies the type of resource that the Stack imports data from.
- `source`: Specifies the path to the project containing the source resource.  

Adding an `upstream_input` block creates a dependency on the upstream Stack.
```
I'm totally just guessing based on the example.

Author: I don't think I need to add this level of field granularity to a usage article, folks can check out the reference on syntax which I link at the bottom of the section if they want all the details.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable an object to consume the exported data, add the `input` argument and reference the `upstream_input` value. Refer to [References to Named Values](/terraform/language/expressions/references) for additional information about referencing objects. 
```
Again, this is just based on how I'm reading the example. Please fill in any gaps and make any corrections.

For example, if you want to use the output `vpc_id` from an upstream Stack in the same project, declare an `upstream_input` block in your deployment configuration. 

<CodeBlockConfig filename="application.tfdeploy.hcl">

```hcl
# Application Stack deployment configuration

upstream_input "networking_stack" {
  type   = "Stack"
  source = "app.terraform.io/hashicorp/Default Project/networking-stack"
}

deployment "application" {
  inputs = {
    # This Stack depends on the networking Stack for this value
    vpc_id = upstream_input.network_stack.vpc_id
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

After pushing your Stack's configuration into HCP Terraform, HCP Terraform searches for the most recently published snapshot of the upstream Stack your configuration references. If no snapshot exists, the downstream Stack's run fails. 

If HCP Terraform finds a published snapshot for your referenced upstream Stack, then all of that Stack's outputs are available to this downstream Stack. Add `upstream_input` blocks for every upstream Stack you want to reference. Learn more about the [`upstream_input` block](/terraform/language/stacks/reference/tfdeploy#upstream_input-block-configuration).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sever dependencies
```
This seems like a standalone topic. I don't know if "Sever" is there right word. Maybe "Disconnect", which sort of fits into the "linked Stacks" theme, or "Detach dependent Stack configurations"?

Author: I flip-flopped back and forth on making this it's own section, but you make a good point, so thank you for helping me land on the other side! ✨

To stop depending on an upstream Stack’s outputs, do the following in your downstream Stack's deployment configuration:

> - Remove the upstream Stack's `upstream_input` block  
> - Remove any references to the upstream Stack's outputs
> - Push your configuration changes to HCP Terraform and apply the new configuration
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Remove the upstream Stack's `upstream_input` block.  
1. Remove any references to the upstream Stack's outputs.
1. Push your configuration changes to HCP Terraform and apply the new configuration.

```

## Trigger runs when output values change

If an upstream Stack's published output values change, HCP Terraform automatically triggers runs for any downstream Stacks that rely on those outputs. 

> For example, if your upstream networking Stack’s output changes, HCP Terraform triggers a new plan for the downstream Stacks that reference that output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `application` deployment is dependent on the upstream source. As a result, it receives new data when the upstream source changes and triggers a new HCP Terraform run.
```

Author: Made shorter and added the context below the example.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="application.tfdeploy.hcl">

```hcl  
# Application Stack deployment configuration

upstream_input "network_stack" {  
  type   = "Stack"  
  source = "app.terraform.io/hashicorp/Default Project/networking-stack"  
}

deployment "application" {  
  inputs = {  

> 	# This Stack depends on the networking Stack’s output, so if  
> 	# the vpc_id changes then HCP Terraform triggers a new run for this Stack.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed, moved below and added context

    vpc_id = upstream_input.network_stack.vpc_id  
  }  
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

> This approach allows you to decouple Stacks that don’t share a lifecycle, while also ensuring that updates in an upstream Stack ripple out to any downstream Stacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to decouple Stacks that have separate lifecycles and ensures that updates in an upstream Stack propagate to downstream Stacks. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
This approach allows you to decouple Stacks that have separate life cycles and ensures that updates in an upstream Stack propagate to downstream Stacks.
```
